Fixes for the commands plugin (#1142 but only the fixes) (#1189)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/plugins/commands.md

## User Command Menu Setting

Once you have defined your commands using the `CommandGroup` class, you can call the `setCommands` method to add all the defined commands to the user command menu.

```ts
const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

myCommands.command("hello", "Say hello", (ctx) => ctx.reply(`Hello, world!`));

bot.use(myCommands);

// Update the user command menu
await myCommands.setCommands(bot); // [!code highlight]
```

This ensures that each registered command appears in the menu of a private chat with your bot or when users type `/` in a chat where your bot is a member.

### Context Shortcut

What if you want some commands displayed only to certain users?
For example, imagine you have a `login` and a `logout` command.
The `login` command should only appear for logged-out users, and vice versa.
Here's how to do that with the commands plugin:

::: code-group

```ts [TypeScript]
// Use the flavor to create a custom context

> type MyContext = CommandsFlavor<MyContext>;

Reviewer: Recursive `MyContext`?

Reviewer 2: That is incorrect. I guess this was meant instead?
```suggestion
type MyContext = CommandsFlavor<Context>;
```

Author: I'll fix it

Make sure you take notice of the different patterns being used in the `admin.ts` and `group.ts` file-tabs.

::: code-group

```ts [bot.ts]
import { devCommands } from "./commands/admin.ts";
import { userCommands } from "./commands/users/group.ts";
import type { MyContext } from "./types.ts";

export const bot = new Bot<MyContext>(""); // <-- put your bot token between the "" (https://t.me/BotFather)

bot.use(commands());

bot.use(userCommands);
bot.filter((ctx) => ctx.from?.id == /** Put your ID here **/)
      .use(devCommands);
```

```ts [types.ts]
import type { Context } from "grammy";

export type MyContext = CommandsFlavor<Context>;
```

```ts [admin.ts]
import { userCommands } from './users/group.ts';
import type { MyContext } from '../types.ts';

export const devCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>();

devCommands.command("devlogin", "Set command menu to dev mode", async (ctx, next) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hello, fellow developer! Are we having coffee today too?");
  await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands, devCommands);
});

devCommands.command("usercount", "Display user count", async (ctx, next) => {
  await ctx.reply(`Total users: ${/** Your business logic */}`);
});

> devCommands.command("devlogout", "Reset command menu to user-mode", async (ctx, next) => {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
devCommands.command("devlogout", "Turn command menu to normal mode", async (ctx, next) => {
```

@KnorpelSenf, @rojvv what about this suggestion?

Reviewer 2: Let's not change the original at this point anymore. Feel free to open a new PQ so we can discuss it there.

We can achieve that with the following code structure:

```ascii
.
├── types.ts
├── bot.ts
└── commands/
    ├── admin.ts
    └── users/
        ├── group.ts
        ├── say-hello.ts
        └── say-bye.ts
```

The following code group exemplifies how we could implement a developer only command group, and update the Telegram client command menu accordingly.
Make sure you take notice of the different patterns being used in the `admin.ts` and `group.ts` file-tabs.

> ::: code-group

Reviewer 4: Ensure that `bot.ts` is first in the `code-group` order. `types.ts` can also go last imo

```ts [types.ts]
import type { Context } from "grammy";

> export type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor<MyContext>;

Reviewer 5: I agree. Also, this won't compile because `MyContext` is referencing itself

We can achieve that with the following code structure:

```ascii
.
├── types.ts
├── bot.ts
└── commands/
    ├── admin.ts
    └── users/
        ├── group.ts
        ├── say-hello.ts
        └── say-bye.ts
```

The following code group exemplifies how we could implement a developer only command group, and update the Telegram client command menu accordingly.
Make sure you take notice of the different patterns being used in the `admin.ts` and `group.ts` file-tabs.

::: code-group

```ts [types.ts]
import type { Context } from "grammy";

> import type { CommandsFlavor } from "grammy_commands";

Reviewer 5: we've already showed how to import this, and there's no `grammy_commands` module. for Deno, it should be the entire URL, and for node it should be `@grammyjs/commands`. that's why we detailed everything in the specific session, so we wouldne't have to keep repeating the imports for each runtime.

```suggestion
```

bot.use(commands());

bot.use(userCommands);

> bot.filter((ctx) => ctx.from?.id == YOUR_ID)

Reviewer 2: ```ts
bot.filter((ctx) => ctx.from?.id == /* this could have worked, too */)
```
but the variable is fine, as well

Author: changed

bot.use(commands());

bot.use(userCommands);
bot.filter((ctx) => ctx.from?.id == `${/** Put your ID here **/}`)

>   .use(devCommands);

Reviewer 4: align

```

```ts [admin.ts]
import { userCommands } from './users/group.ts';
import type { MyContext } from '../types.ts';

export const devCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>();

devCommands.command('devlogin', 'Set command menu to dev mode', async (ctx, next) => {
  if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
    await ctx.reply('Hello, fellow developer! Are we having coffee today too?');
    await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands, devCommands);
  } else {
    await next();
  }
});

devCommands.command('usercount', 'Display user count', async (ctx, next) => {
  if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {

>     await ctx.reply( `Active users: ${/** Your business logic */}`);

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
await ctx.reply( `Total users: ${/** Your business logic */}`);
```

  } else {
    await next();
  }
});

devCommands.command('devlogout', 'Reset command menu to user-mode', async (ctx, next) => {
  if (ctx.from?.id === ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID) {
    await ctx.reply('Until next commit!');
    await ctx.setMyCommands(userCommands);
  } else {
    await next();
  }

>  });

Reviewer 4: I think we should reduce this to 2 more brief commands, `usercount` and `stats` for example. And instead of checking for `ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID` on every command, add a `.filter` for it in `bot.ts` .

Right now it's too bloated

Author: > And instead of checking for `ctx.env.DEVELOPER_ID` on every command, add a `.filter` for it in `bot.ts` .

What about
```ts
bot.filter((ctx) => ctx.from?.id == `${/** Put your ID in here **/}`).use(devCommands)

Reviewer 4: LGTM + removing it from the command

  .localize("pt", "ola", "Dizer olá");
```

Add as many as you want!
The plugin will take care of registering them for you when you call `myCommands.setCommands`.

> For convenience, grammY exports a `LanguageCodes` enum-like object, which you can use to create a more idiomatic approach.

Reviewer 4: > for convenience, grammY exports a `LanguageCodes` enum-like object, which

Since https://github.com/grammyjs/commands/pull/56 this object is exported from the plugin itself. At some point (jsr migration) its gonna comeback to the grammy core library. For the time being, docs should keep this self-contain and import it from the plugin itself

Author: I'm not quite sure how this is supposed to work. I can't import from the plugin

Reviewer 4: ```ts
import { LanguageCodes } from "grammy/commands";

Author: ![orsiNywuyB](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/003ec857-3416-497a-bae3-b0559bcfbf25)
I guess problem with my packages, idk..,

## Finding the Nearest Command

> Telegram can automatically complete registered commands.
> However, sometimes users still type these commands manually and may make mistakes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Telegram autocompletes registered commands while typing. 
However, sometimes users still type these commands completely by hand and may make mistakes.
```
`Autocompletes` is a term commonly enough associated for referencing that specific feature. WDYT?

## Finding the Nearest Command

Telegram can automatically complete registered commands.
However, sometimes users still type these commands manually and may make mistakes.

To help with this, the commands plugin suggests a command that the user might have intended to use.

> This plugin works with custom prefixes, so you don’t need to worry about compatibility.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This functionality works with custom prefixes, so you don’t need to worry about compatibility.
```

Author: Are we using '’', not '''?

type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor;

// Use the new context to instantiate your bot
const bot = new Bot<MyContext>("token");
const bot = new Bot<MyContext>(""); // <-- put your bot token between the "" (https://t.me/BotFather)
const myCommands = new CommandGroup<MyContext>();

// ... Register the commands

bot
  // Check if there is a command
  .filter(commandNotFound(myCommands))
  // If so, that means it wasn't handled by any of our commands.
  // If so, that means it wasn't handled by any of our commands
  .use(async (ctx) => {
    // We found a potential match
    if (ctx.commandSuggestion) {
      // We found a potential match
      await ctx.reply(
        `Hmm... I don't know that command. Did you mean ${ctx.commandSuggestion}?`,
      );

>       return;

Reviewer: Should this `return` really be removed?

Author: Oh, actually. This should be changed to:
```ts
bot
	// Check if there is a command
	.filter(commandNotFound(myCommands))
	// If so, that means it wasn't handled by any of our commands
	.use(async ctx => {
		// We found a potential match
		if (ctx.commandSuggestion) {
			return ctx.reply(`Hmm... I don't know that command. Did you mean ${ctx.commandSuggestion}?`);
		}

		// Nothing seems to come close to what the user typed
		await ctx.reply("Oops... I don't know that command :/");
	});
```

> type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor;

Author: I don't quite understand how it works, but it might be worth using 
```ts
type MyContext = Context & CommandsFlavor<MyContext>;
```

Reviewer 5: There's no need to do so, since `CommandsFlavor` already extends `Context`

// ... Register the commands

bot
  // Check if there is a command
  .filter(commandNotFound(myCommands))
  // If so, that means it wasn't handled by any of our commands
  .use(async (ctx) => {
    // We found a potential match
    if (ctx.commandSuggestion) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Hmm... I don't know that command. Did you mean ${ctx.commandSuggestion}?`,
      );
    }

    // Nothing seems to come close to what the user typed
    await ctx.reply("Oops... I don't know that command :/");
  });
```

```js [JavaScript]
const bot = new Bot(""); // <-- put your bot token between the "" (https://t.me/BotFather)
const myCommands = new CommandGroup();

// ... Register the commands

bot
  // Check if there is a command
  .filter(commandNotFound(myCommands))
  // If so, that means it wasn't handled by any of our commands
  .use(async (ctx) => {
    // We found a potential match
    if (ctx.commandSuggestion) {
      await ctx.reply(
        `Hmm... I don't know that command. Did you mean ${ctx.commandSuggestion}?`,
      );
    }

    // Nothing seems to come close to what the user typed
    await ctx.reply("Oops... I don't know that command :/");
  });
```

:::

> The `commandNotFound` gives you some options to configure:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The `commandNotFound` predicate takes in some options to customize its behavior:
```

> - `ignoreLocalization`: By default, `commandNotFound` prioritizes commands that match the user language.
>   To opt-out, set this option to `true`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `ignoreLocalization`: Do not prioritize commands that match the user language.
```

> // Register each language-specific command group

Reviewer 4: May be worth making the example fully functional. Right now it's not possible to copy-paste this because of this line and no initialization of `bot`

```suggestion
bot.use(myCommands)
bot.use(otherCommands)
```

When users invoke a command, they can optionally tag your bot, like so: `/command@bot_username`.
You can decide what to do with these commands by using the `targetedCommands` config option.
With this option, you can choose between three different behaviors:

- `ignored`: Ignores commands that mention your bot's username.
- `optional`: Handles both commands that mention the bot's username and ones that don't.
- `required`: Only handles commands that mention the bot's username.

### `prefix`

Currently, only commands starting with `/` are recognized by Telegram and, consequently, by the [command handling done by the grammY core library](../guide/commands).
In some occasions, you might want to change that and use a custom prefix for your bot.
That is made possible by the `prefix` option, which will tell the commands plugin to look for that prefix when trying to identify a command.

If you ever need to retrieve `botCommand` entities from an update and need them to be hydrated with the custom prefix you have registered, there is a method specifically tailored for that, called `ctx.getCommandEntities(yourCommands)`, which returns the same interface as `ctx.entities('bot_command')`

> ::: tip

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
::: danger
```

// Register each language-specific command group

// Let's assume the user is French and typed '/Papi'
bot

>   // This filter will trigger for any command-like as '/regular' or '?custom'

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  // This filter will trigger for any command-like text, such as '/regular' or '?custom'
```
